Add documentation for TensorFlow Script Mode - First draft (#505)
aws/sagemaker-python-sdk: src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst

training algorithms on SageMaker Learner, and to host your own TensorFlow
models on SageMaker Hosting.

> Documentation of the previous versions: ``[1.4.1](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/tree/v1.0.0#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators)``, ``[1.5.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/tree/v1.1.0#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators)``, ``[1.6.0]((https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models))``, ``[1.7.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models)``, ``[1.8.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models)``, ``[1.9.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.9.2/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models)``, ``[1.10.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.10.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models)``, ``1.11.0``.

Reviewer: Lol, I mixed MD and rst 😆

> Documentation of the previous versions: ``[1.4.1](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/tree/v1.0.0#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators)``, ``[1.5.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/tree/v1.1.0#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators)``, ``[1.6.0]((https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models))``, ``[1.7.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models)``, ``[1.8.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models)``, ``[1.9.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.9.2/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models)``, ``[1.10.0](https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.10.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models)``, ``1.11.0``.

Reviewer: Fix for the mess that I suggested earlier :)

```suggestion
Documentation of the previous versions: `1.4.1 <https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/tree/v1.0.0#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators>`_, `1.5.0 <https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/tree/v1.1.0#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators>`_, `1.6.0 <(https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models>`_, `1.7.0 <https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models>`_, `1.8.0 <https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.5.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models>`_, `1.9.0 <https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.9.2/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models>`_, `1.10.0 <https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-python-sdk/blob/v1.10.0/src/sagemaker/tensorflow/README.rst#tensorflow-sagemaker-estimators-and-models>`_, ``1.11.0``.
```

+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| WARNING                                                                                                                             |
+=====================================================================================================================================+
| We are adding a new format of your TensorFlow training script with TensorFlow version 1.11.                                         |
| This new way gives the user script more flexibility.                                                                                |
| We are calling this new feature Script Mode.                                                                                        |
| This new format is called Script Mode, as opposed to Legacy Mode, which is what we support with TensorFlow 1.11 and older versions. |

> | In addition we are adding Python 3 support with Script Mode.                                                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This new format is called Script Mode. Script Mode is available in Python 2.7, and Python 3.6```

| Last supported version of Legacy Mode will be TensorFlow 1.12.                                                                      |

> | Script Mode is only available with TensorFlow version 1.11 and newer.                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Script Mode is available with TensorFlow version 1.11 and newer.                                                               |
```

training algorithms on SageMaker Learner, and to host your own TensorFlow
models on SageMaker Hosting.

> 

Reviewer 2: sorry for my ambiguous comment last time. I think you can keep the list of links up here since presumably we'll eventually remove the warning box. in the warning box, I think you're good to keep just the latest legacy mode readme version

Supported versions of TensorFlow: ``1.4.1``, ``1.5.0``, ``1.6.0``, ``1.7.0``, ``1.8.0``, ``1.9.0``, ``1.10.0``, ``1.11.0``.

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| WARNING                                                                                            |
+====================================================================================================+
| We are adding a new way of providing your TensorFlow training script with TensorFlow version 1.11. |
| This new way gives the user script more flexibility. We are calling this new feature Script Mode.  |
| In addition we are adding Python 3 support with Script Mode.                                       |
| Make sure you refer to the correct section of this README when you prepare your script.            |
| For clarification we will name the current training script configuration Legacy Mode.              |

> | Legacy Mode is going to be deprecated early 2019.                                                  |

Author: The plan is to deprecate framework/legacy mode with the launch with TensorFlow 2. I think it should be safe to say early 2019 since TensorFlow 2 is coming out this year.

``tf-train.py``. You can train this script in SageMaker Learner as

> follows:

Reviewer 2: following the colon with section headers seems a bit weird to me. I think I'd remove this paragraph entirely

For Script Mode (only available with TensorFlow version 1.11 or higher)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Script Mode will be used if ``py_version`` is set to ``py3``. To use Python 2 with script mode set ``script_mode`` to

Reviewer: Set script_mode to True, not py2

> ``py2``. ``checkpoint_path``, ``training_steps``, ``evaluation_steps`` and ``requirements_file`` are deprecated in

Reviewer: This seems complicated. I would only focus in the script mode. For legacy mode, just point to a tag with another version of the documentation.

- Mention the deprecated fields (given that they are unnecessary) in the end of the documentation.

The code snippet:

```python
from sagemaker.tensorflow import TensorFlow

tf_estimator = TensorFlow(entry_point='tf-train.py', role='SageMakerRole',
                          training_steps=10000, evaluation_steps=100,
                          train_instance_count=1, train_instance_type='ml.p2.xlarge',
                          framework_version=1.11, py_version='py3',
                          script_mode=True)
```

works for both python 2 and python 3 (if we change py_version). You can explain all the nuances later or the user will learn by reading the docstrings. 
Focus this session for the user that had never use sagemaker tensorflow. It should be easy to read and to start using it.

Script Mode. ``model_dir`` is added to specify where the checkpoint and saved model files will be export to during
training. ``model_dir`` will be passed to your training script as a command line argument. Please make sure your

> training script can handle it.

Reviewer: Same here, write the documentation focusing in a first time experience and assume that the reader has zero information. The reader should be able to ramp up very quickly reading the docs. He should be able to go back to the docs later for more details.

> First, you prepare your training script, then second, you run it on

Reviewer 2: ll. 32-33: maybe change to "a `sagemaker.tensorflow.TensorFlow` estimator"? or remove the first "a"

For the exhaustive list of available environment variables, see the `SageMaker Containers documentation <https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-containers#list-of-provided-environment-variables-by-sagemaker-containers>`__.

A typical training script loads data from the input channels, configures training with hyperparameters, trains a model, and saves a model to ``SM_CHANNEL_TRAIN`` so that it can be deployed for inference later.
Hyperparameters are passed to your script as arguments and can be retrieved with an ``argparse.ArgumentParser`` instance.
For example, a training script might start with the following:

.. code:: python

    import argparse
    import os

    if __name__ =='__main__':

        parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()

        # hyperparameters sent by the client are passed as command-line arguments to the script.
        parser.add_argument('--epochs', type=int, default=10)
        parser.add_argument('--batch-size', type=int, default=100)
        parser.add_argument('--learning-rate', type=float, default=0.1)

        # input data and model directories

>         parser.add_argument('--model_dir', type=str)

Reviewer 2: it's a little weird to see ll. 73-74 using dashes and l. 77 using an underscore

Adapting your local TensorFlow script
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

If you have a TensorFlow training script that runs outside of SageMaker please follow the directions here:

1. Make sure your script can handle ``--model_dir`` as an additional command line argument. If you did not specify a
location when the TensorFlow estimator is constructed a S3 location under the default training job bucket will be passed
in here. Distributed training with parameter servers requires you use the ``tf.estimator.train_and_evaluate`` API and
a S3 location is needed as the model directory during training. Here is an example:

.. code:: python

    estimator = tf.estimator.Estimator(model_fn=my_model_fn, model_dir=args.model_dir)
    ...
    train_spec = tf.estimator.TrainSpec(train_input_fn, max_steps=1000)
    eval_spec = tf.estimator.EvalSpec(eval_input_fn)
    tf.estimator.train_and_evaluate(mnist_classifier, train_spec, eval_spec)

2. Load input data from the input channels. The input channels are defined when ``fit`` is called. For example:

.. code:: python

    estimator.fit({'train':'s3://my-bucket/my-training-data',
                  'eval':'s3://my-bucket/my-evaluation-data'})

>    In your training script the channels will be stored in environment variables ``SM_CHANNEL_TRAIN`` and

Reviewer 2: make sure the indentation/spacing is right here - this paragraph is getting rendered as a code block with ll. 113-114

   ``SM_CHANNEL_EVAL``. You can add them to your argument parsing logic like this:

.. code:: python

    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
    parser.add_argument('--train', type=str, default=os.environ.get('SM_CHANNEL_TRAIN'))
    parser.add_argument('--eval', type=str, default=os.environ.get('SM_CHANNEL_EVAL'))

3. Export your final model to path stored in environment variable ``SM_MODEL_DIR`` which should always be
   ``/opt/ml/model``. At end of training SageMaker will upload the model file under ``/opt/ml/model`` to
   ``output_path``.

> Calling fit

Reviewer 2: I'd rename this to include mention of the `TensorFlow` class, then make a subheader for talking about the constructor arguments and a subheader for talking about calling fit

^^^^^^^^^^^

> If you want to use Script Mode, set at least one of these args

Reviewer 2: we're assuming at this point in the README that the user does want to use Script Mode, so I think you can remove "If you want"

SageMaker, then how to run that script on SageMaker using a ``sagemaker.tensorflow.TensorFlow``
estimator.

To learn how to prepare training script and how training works in general see:

- Legacy Mode `Legacy Mode Training <legacy_training.rst>`_
- Script Mode `Script Mode Training <sm_training.rst>`_

sagemaker.tensorflow.TensorFlow class
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``TensorFlow`` constructor takes both required and optional arguments.

> 

Author: do you mean moving this to legacy_training.rst and sm_training.rst?

> 

Reviewer: I would just remove legacy docs and point the link to another tag.

   training.
-  ``train_instance_type (str)`` Type of EC2 instance to use for training, for
   example, 'ml.c4.xlarge'.

Optional:

-  ``source_dir (str)`` Path (absolute or relative) to a directory with any

>    other training source code dependencies including the entry point

Reviewer 2: ll. 105-121 don't render correctly - maybe try removing the hanging indent?

>             >>>     ├── common

Reviewer 2: l. 106 - add backticks around `[]`

            >>>     └── virtual-env

-  ``hyperparameters (dict[str,ANY])`` Hyperparameters that will be used for training.

>    Will be made accessible as a dict[] to the training code on

Reviewer 2: what does "dict[]" mean here?

   framework_version and py_version. Refer to: `SageMaker TensorFlow Docker Containers
   <#sagemaker-tensorflow-docker-containers>`_ for details on what the Official images support
   and where to find the source code to build your custom image.

> - ``script_mode (bool)`` Wether to use Script Mode or not. Setting ``py_version`` to ``py3`` overrides it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``script_mode (bool)`` Wether to use Script Mode or not. Script mode is the only available training mode in Python 3, setting py_version to py3 automatically sets script_mode to True.
```

> - ``model_dir (str)`` S3 location where checkpoint data will saved and restored. If not specified a S3 location will

Reviewer: Location where model data, checkpoint data, and TensorBoard checkpoints should be saved during training.

This argument is typically automatically set by SageMaker with the values:

- single training: model_dir = /opt/ml/model, a special folder in the container that will be persisted after the end of training, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/your-algorithms-training-algo.html#your-algorithms-training-algo-envvariables for more information

- distributed_training: a S3 location shared between all containers ...

Reviewer: Add links to example notebooks or code samples showing this.

  be generated under the training job's default bucket. And ``model_dir`` will be passed in your training script as
  one of the command line arguments.
- ``distribution (dict)`` Configure your distrubtion strategy with this argument. For launching parameter server for

>   for distributed training, you must set ``distribution`` to ``{'parameter_server': {'enabled': True}}``

Reviewer: Let's add links to examples notebooks or code snippets here too.

Legacy Mode Arguments
'''''''''''''''''''''

Required:

-  ``entry_point (str)`` Path (absolute or relative) to the Python file which
   should be executed as the entry point to training.
-  ``role (str)`` An AWS IAM role (either name or full ARN). The Amazon
   SageMaker training jobs and APIs that create Amazon SageMaker
   endpoints use this role to access training data and model artifacts.
   After the endpoint is created, the inference code might use the IAM
   role, if accessing AWS resource.
-  ``train_instance_count (int)`` Number of Amazon EC2 instances to use for
   training.
-  ``train_instance_type (str)`` Type of EC2 instance to use for training, for
   example, 'ml.c4.xlarge'.
- ``training_steps (int)`` Perform this many steps of training. ``None``, means train forever.

> - ``evaluation_steps (int)`` Perform this many steps of evaluation. ``None``, means

Reviewer 2: remove the commas after "None"

  that evaluation runs until input from ``eval_input_fn`` is exhausted (or another exception is raised).

> Optional:

Reviewer: All these parameters are available for script mode as well, which makes this part confusing. I would just remove any mention to legacy mode here and explain how these fields work with script mode.

-  ``source_dir (str)`` Path (absolute or relative) to a directory with any
   other training source code dependencies including the entry point
   file. Structure within this directory will be preserved when training
   on SageMaker.

> - ``dependencies (list[str])`` A list of paths to directories (absolute or relative) with

Reviewer 2: same here about rendering

Reviewer 2: bump - fix the rendering

        any additional libraries that will be exported to the container (default: []).
        The library folders will be copied to SageMaker in the same folder where the entrypoint is copied.
        If the ```source_dir``` points to S3, code will be uploaded and the S3 location will be used
        instead. Example:

            The following call
            >>> TensorFlow(entry_point='train.py', dependencies=['my/libs/common', 'virtual-env'])
            results in the following inside the container:

            >>> $ ls

            >>> opt/ml/code
            >>>     ├── train.py
            >>>     ├── common
            >>>     └── virtual-env

-  ``hyperparameters (dict[str,ANY])`` Hyperparameters that will be used for training.

>    Will be made accessible as a dict[] to the training code on

Reviewer 2: same comment about "dict[]"

  serving.  If specified, the estimator will use this image for training and
  hosting, instead of selecting the appropriate SageMaker official image based on
  framework_version and py_version. Refer to: `SageMaker TensorFlow Docker Containers
  <#sagemaker-tensorflow-docker-containers>`_ for details on what the Official images support
  and where to find the source code to build your custom image.
- ``script_mode (bool)`` Whether to use Script Mode or not. Script mode is the only available training mode in Python 3,
  setting ``py_version`` to ``py3`` automatically sets ``script_mode`` to True.
- ``model_dir (str)`` Location where model data, checkpoint data, and TensorBoard checkpoints should be saved during training.
  If not specified a S3 location will be generated under the training job's default bucket. And ``model_dir`` will be
  passed in your training script as one of the command line arguments.
- ``distribution (dict)`` Configure your distrubtion strategy with this argument. For launching parameter server for
  for distributed training, you must set ``distribution`` to ``{'parameter_server': {'enabled': True}}``

> Deploying TensorFlow Serving models

Reviewer 2: maybe the serving section should go below all of the training ones?

Required:

- ``entry_point (str)`` Path (absolute or relative) to the Python file which
  should be executed as the entry point to training.
- ``role (str)`` An AWS IAM role (either name or full ARN). The Amazon
  SageMaker training jobs and APIs that create Amazon SageMaker
  endpoints use this role to access training data and model artifacts.
  After the endpoint is created, the inference code might use the IAM
  role, if accessing AWS resource.
- ``train_instance_count (int)`` Number of Amazon EC2 instances to use for
  training.
- ``train_instance_type (str)`` Type of EC2 instance to use for training, for
  example, 'ml.c4.xlarge'.

Optional:

- ``source_dir (str)`` Path (absolute or relative) to a directory with any
  other training source code dependencies including the entry point
  file. Structure within this directory will be preserved when training
  on SageMaker.
- ``dependencies (list[str])`` A list of paths to directories (absolute or relative) with
  any additional libraries that will be exported to the container (default: ``[]``).
  The library folders will be copied to SageMaker in the same folder where the entrypoint is copied.

>   If the ```source_dir``` points to S3, code will be uploaded and the S3 location will be used

Reviewer 2: only double backticks

  instead. Example:

      The following call
      >>> TensorFlow(entry_point='train.py', dependencies=['my/libs/common', 'virtual-env'])
      results in the following inside the container:

>       >>> $ ls

Reviewer 2: I think this `ls` line is unnecessary

      >>> opt/ml/code
      >>>     ├── train.py
      >>>     ├── common

>       >>>     └── virtual-env

Reviewer 2: actually, maybe this section shouldn't be extra indented - it's showing up as quoted text.

  instead. Example:

  The following call

  >>> TensorFlow(entry_point='train.py', dependencies=['my/libs/common', 'virtual-env'])

>   results in the following inside the container:

Reviewer 2: put a newline before this line so it's not part of the code block

SageMaker TensorFlow Docker containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer 2: it could be nice to turn this into the table that we have with some of the other frameworks.

+--------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+
| Python                         | 2.7 or 3.6    | 2.7               |
+--------------------------------+---------------+-------------------+

Legacy Mode TensorFlow Docker images support Python 2.7. Script Mode TensorFlow Docker images support both Python 2.7
and Python 3.6. The Docker images extend Ubuntu 16.04.

You can select version of TensorFlow by passing a ``framework_version`` keyword arg to the TensorFlow Estimator constructor. Currently supported versions are listed in the table above. You can also set ``framework_version`` to only specify major and minor version, e.g ``1.6``, which will cause your training script to be run on the latest supported patch version of that minor version, which in this example would be 1.6.0.
Alternatively, you can build your own image by following the instructions in the SageMaker TensorFlow containers
repository, and passing ``image_name`` to the TensorFlow Estimator constructor.

For more information on the contents of the images, see the SageMaker TensorFlow containers repository here: https://github.com/aws/sagemaker-tensorflow-containers/

> 

Reviewer 2: why so many newlines? 😂
